FAST National University,  
                    Founded as a Federally Chartered University in July 2000, the National University of Computer and Emerging Sciences is a premiere University of Pakistan, renowned for quality and impact of its students in the development of local software and other industries. The university has five modern campuses at Karachi, Lahore, Islamabad, Peshawar and Chiniot-Faisalabad. These campuses provide world class educational environment and recreational facilities to about over 11,000 students, around one quarter are female and over 500 skilled faculty members.
                 Research wings of the university are well recognized, nationally and internationally. They are embarked upon cutting edge research having direct impact on the social, economic and technological needs of Pakistan. Our vision is to become a globally recognized research university of Pakistan within the next decade. FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
Program Offered,  The NUCES offers Under-graduate, Graduate and Post-Graduate programs in following disciplines. FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
Admission Schedule,  FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
How To Apply,  The procedure for admission is as follows: 
                            Information on various Admission Tests is available on the University’s admission web-site
                            
admissions.nu.edu.pk

 The online admission test is taken on a computer. The candidate should be familiar with the use of mouse and the keyboard. Each candidate is given a different examination. The sections of a test (English, Analytical skills, Math etc) appear in a random sequence. Moreover, questions related to different topics also appear before the candidate in a random sequence. In each section, a candidate can move forward and backwards to review the responses selected. The candidate can change his or her response to any question within the current section. Each section of the admission test has a fixed duration. Each section is timed independently and time saved in one section is not carried forward to the next sections. At the end of the test, a summary of the results is displayed on screen. The duration of the Online Admission Test is between two and three hours. Applicants should reach the test centre on the date and time specified on the admit card. Latecomers will not be allowed to take the test. Applicants should not bring anything to the test centre except their Admit Cards. No applicant will be allowed to take the test without an endorsed Admit Card. The Admission Test is held at all campuses of the University (Karachi, Lahore, Islamabad, and Peshawar). 

Click Here
 for Selection Criteria.
                         
                                    The selected candidates are informed through SMS on their cell phones and also via email. The candidates should check the status of their admission from the University web site 
admissions.nu.edu.pk
 or 
www.nu.edu.pk
.
                                 At the time of admission, foreign nationals must submit a No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the Ministry of Education, Government of Pakistan. The procedure for admission is as follows: 
                            The selected candidates are informed through SMS on their cell phones and also via email. The candidates should check the status of their admission from the University web site 
admissions.nu.edu.pk
 or 
www.nu.edu.pk
.
                         At the time of admission, foreign nationals must submit a No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the Ministry of Education, Government of Pakistan. Those who have taken SAT examination can apply for admission to the undergraduate programs, i.e. BBA or BS. Those who have taken the GRE (subject test) can apply for admission to graduate programs, i.e. MS, MBA or PhD. 
Click here to Apply Online
 
The Institution code for receiving SAT scores is 4575
 
The Institution code for receiving GRE scores is 7386
 FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
Eligibility Criteria,  
NOTE:All documents/transcripts will be checked at the time of admission.Any
                                                incorrect/false information submitted by the applicant or any attempt to hide information
                                                will lead to disqualification of the candidate.
                                             
NOTE:All documents/transcripts will be checked at the time of admission.Any
                                                incorrect/false information submitted by the applicant or any attempt to hide information
                                                will lead to disqualification of the candidate.
                                             
NOTE:All documents/transcripts will be checked at the time of admission.Any
                                                incorrect/false information submitted by the applicant or any attempt to hide information
                                                will lead to disqualification of the candidate.
                                             FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
Scholarship,  Merit scholarship is awarded to the Top THREE position holders in each Group of each Examination Board. Scholarship is also offered to top three position holders in the merit list of NU admission merit list. This scholarship is for four years of un-interrupted studies with full course load and is equal to the full tuition fee. Continuation of merit scholarship is subject to maintaining semester GPA of 3.0 or higher. The Higher Education Commission (HEC) provides liberal scholarships to students desirous of studying for the MS and PhD degrees at this university. The scholarship covers tuition fee, monthly stipend and book allowance. The Government of Punjab gives 42 scholarships to indigent students having domicile of Punjab. Newly admitted students in any campus of the university can apply for this scholarship.The scholarship is for 4-year undergraduate studies and covers some portion of the tuition fee. The remaining tuition fee can be given by the University as Qarz-e-Hasna. The Sindh Government offers scholarships to students of Karachi campus on need-cum-merit for both under-graduate and graduate studies. The scholarship covers full tuition fee for entire duration of the program, renewable every year. The quota for students from rural sector is 60%, and the remaining 40% is for the students from urban sector. About 25 new scholarships are offered every year under this scheme. Baluchistan Government offers scholarships to students of Karachi campus on need-cum-merit for both under-graduate and graduate studies. The scholarship covers full tuition fee for entire duration of the program, renewable every year. OSAF (Old Students Association of FAST) arranges financial assistance for those students who cannot afford to pay their full fee. In addition to the above scholarships there are various community based scholarships offered by various committees and foundations such as, Memon Community Scholarships, Bohra Community Scholarships, INFAQ Foundation scholarships, Agha Khan Foundation Scholarships, etc. For Karachi campus, Alumni Association, Hindu Community, and Agha Khan Foundation also provides scholarships in limited numbers.  The University may utilize the services of its students in its different activities. These students are compensated for rendering their services. PICIC Commercial Bank, NIB Bank, Bank Alfalah, Bank Islami and MCB offer loans to students. Realizing that the fees may not be affordable for some of its students, FAST arranges financial assistance in the form of interest-free study loans for bright indigent students. This assistance is subject to renewal every semester in light of the student’s academic performance. Financial assistance is limited to tuition fee only and is discontinued if the student’s CGPA falls below the minimum specified to avoid warning. Loan recipients MUST take full load of courses offered.  Applicants desirous of seeking study loan should apply for this purpose on the prescribed form available from all campuses or downloadable from the University web site. The repayment of loan starts three months after graduation or soon after getting employment, whichever is earlier. The total amount has to be repaid within a period of four years after graduation. Students are required to sign a contract allowing future employers to deduct loan repayments at source and remit it to the University. FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
Test Pattern,  Note: There will be Negative Marking and use of calculators is not allowed in the Admission Test. FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
Fee Structure,  
                    Admission Fee of Rs 20,000 is payable once at the time of admission. If a graduate of this University is admitted to a higher degree program, then admission fee is not payable again.
                 
                    A refundable security deposit of Rs 20,000 is also payable at the time of admission.
                 
                    Tuition Fee is payable in full before the start of each semester. It is subject to revision every year. For the academic year 2023-24 the tuition fee per credit hour is as follows:
                 
                    To support co-curricular and extra-curricular activities a Student Activities Fund has been formed. Students contribute Rs 2,000 towards Students Activities Fund per semester.
                 Late payment fine is levied on the entire outstanding fee (current as well as arrears). It is charged at the rate of Re 1.00 per day for every thousand rupees. Registration is suspended TWO months after the due date for payment of fee.  
                    
                    University shall collect advance tax from a person not appearing on the active taxpayers list (ATL) at 5% on the entire amount of fee paid, provided that annual fee paid exceeds Rs. 200,000. The Parent/Guardian will be required to provide NTN or CNIC number so that it can be adjusted at the time of filing of Income Tax return. The University will issue Tax Deduction Certificate.
                 
                    1. Admission Fee is non-refundable.
                    2. Security deposit is refundable at the time of completion of degree or closing of admission.
                    3. Tuition Fee is refunded in accordance with the guidelines of Higher Education Commission (HEC).
                 Days shall be counted including working days and holidays. After declaration of result, admission of a student stands cancelled if he/she fails to meet the required eligibility requirement for admission. The fee refund is calculated from the date of his/her result announcement.  
                    Fee can be paid using any one of the following methods:
                    
Print the challan form and then visit any nearest Faysal bank branch for cash deposit.

Via bank account using Kuickpay payment gateway.
Step 1: Sign in to your Internet Banking, Mobile Banking or visit an ATM machine
Step 2: Select Bill Payment / Payments and then select ‘kuickpay’ from given categories
Step 3: Enter the voucher or invoice number & continue. Make sure to enter Institution ID as prefix (mentioned on challan)
Step 4: Confirm your voucher details and proceed to payment. Payment alerts will be received accordingly.
                            *Customers of following Banks can avail Kuickpay service 
                            Allied Bank, Askari Bank, Bank Al Habib, Bank Alfalah, Bank Islami, Bank of Punjab, Dubai Islamic Bank, Faysal Bank, First Women Bank, Habib Metro Bank, Habib Bank Limited, JS Bank, MCB Bank, MCB Islamic Bank, Meezan Bank, National Bank, NRSP Bank, SAMBA Bank, Soneri bank, Summit Bank, UBL and Keenu App.
                            ** Easy paisa and JazzCash can also be used for payment via kuickpay. (Transaction Limit apply)
                            For further clarification, please visit: https://app.kuickpay.com/PaymentsBillPayment


 FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
Events,  Chiniot-Faisalabad Campus organized Workshop on Machine Learning for Signal Processing & Big Data Analytics  Muaze Nakhez, Muhammad Hashim and Ahmed Tehsin from FAST-NU Chiniot-Faisalabad campus represented Fast Photography Society at LUMS Annual Photography Summit 2014 held at LUMS from March 28 to 29. Daira’14, 1st Olympiad of FAST-NU, a 4-day event from February 28 to March 3 marked great success by providing youth a platform to express their thoughts and explore innate talent. The event was organized by FASTNU Chiniot-Faisalabad campus. Daira’14 was attended by more than 1800 students from over 120 institutions from across the country.Daira’14 organized 47 events in categories of Bol – Art of Articulation, Arfa Kareem Techno Art, Abdul Khaliq Sports Battle and Colors of Creativity. Delegation of Faisalabad Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FCCI) visits Chiniot-Faislabad (CFD) campus.The delegation, led by FCCI President Mr. Sohail bin Rashid held a detailed interactive session with the students and faculty of the campus.While responding to different queries of the students, Mr. Sohail said that despite all challenges, Faisalabad is one such city which promises entrepreneurial and professional opportunities to youth. The medal distribution ceremony for the first semester at FAST National University took place in the university’s auditorium on April’23. FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
MedalHolders,  Students with outstanding academic performance are awarded medals. First, Second and Third position holders are awarded Gold, Silver and Bronze Medals respectively. Following Students have so far received the honor: MS(CS) MS(EE) MS(EE) BBA BS(AF) BS(CS) BS(EE) MS(EE) BBA BS(AF) BS(CS) BS(EE) MBA-1.5 BBA BS(AF) BS(CS) BBA BS(CS) FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
RectorLists,  Students (registered in a Bachelor degree program) with the SGPA 4.00 are included in the RECTOR's List. Such a student recieves a Certificate and his/her name is also placed on the University's website. Only those students are included in this list if they have completed the semester with regular course load prescribed in the study plan. Following Students have so far received the honor Second Year Third Year Second Year Fourth Year First Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Third Year Second Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year First Year Second Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Fourth Year Second Year Fourth Year Fourth Year Second Year Fourth Year Second Year Fourth Year First Year Third Year First Year Second Year Second Year First Year FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
DeanLists,  Students (registered in a Bachelor degree program) with the SGPA 3.50 or more in a semester are included in the DEAN's List. Such a student recieves a Certificate and his/her name is also placed on the University's website. Only those students are included in this list if they have completed the semester with regular course load prescribed in the study plan. Following Students have so far received the honor Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Second Year Second Year Third Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year  First Year Second Year  First Year  First Year Second Year  First Year Second Year  First Year Second Year  First Year  First Year Second Year  First Year  First Year  First Year  First Year FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
ScholarshipAwardees,  BS(CS) BS(CS) FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
Mission/Vision,  “To be recognized among the top five universities offering Electrical Engineering in Pakistan, producing next generation of engineers who are motivated in applying engineering concepts to solve real life problems in an ethically, socially and economically responsible way.” Our graduates are expected to attain the following: PEO-1: Versatility Practice Electrical Engineering in a broad range of industries PEO-2: Learning Pursue advances in engineering education PEO-3: Conduct Conduct themselves in a responsible, professional, and ethical manner. PEO-4: Engineering Employ creative problem solving skills to devise innovative solutions for the complex engineering problems faced by industry, society and environment. PEO-5: Leadership Emerge as team leaders in their domain of expertise and in activities that support service and economic development, nationally and throughout the world FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
FAST NUCES Islamabad,  A.K Brohi Road, H 11/4, Islamabad  111-128-128
Research,  
                    The Management Advancement Research Centre
                    (MARC) was established at FAST_NUCES
                    Islamabad to conduct leading edge research in
                    management sciences with the aim to enhance
                    knowledge and find solutions for industry challenges.
                    Various Special Interest Groups (SIGs) work under
                    MARC, all committed to taking up projects which
                    contribute to the body of knowledge, yet at the same
                    time provide a bridge between academia and practice.
                    The Leadership and Management SIG has carried out
                    various projects on leadership, cross-cultural HRM
                    and performance management over the past few
                    years. International projects and partnerships include
                    work with the Cross-Cultural Management Network
                    (CCMN) under which the main past project covered
                    trust and leadership across cultures, while the current
                    project is based on leadership behaviours, trust and
                    job embeddedness across cultures covering data from
                    25 countries. Another landmark project of the SIG
                    includes collection of data on the GLOBE 2020
                    project for comparison of cultural dimension in
                    Pakistan with 100 plus countries in collaboration with
                    Simon Frasier University, Canada; the Director
                    MARC also conducted the GLOBE study in Pakistan
                    in the past. The lead researcher has also been
                    involved in various projects on performance
                    management to improve industry practices, and has a
                    special interest in using data to improve HR
                    practices.
                 
                    The Project Management and the Organizational
                    Behaviour SIGs expand the scope of MARC. The
                    team's expertise include behavioural decision making
                    in project management, justice, creativity,
                    organizational politics, workplace stressors and
                    psychological stressors. The SIG researchers have
                    various publications in the above mentioned areas
                    and are interested in working with industry to
                    improve organizational practices.
                 The Software Quality Engineering and Testing Center (QUEST) focuses on engineering of reliable and dependable software systems. Quality Engineering and Testing of software systems is an active research area and is receiving a lot of attention worldwide. However, catastrophic software failures are still reported frequently. There is an ever-increasing need to develop better quality software by using systematic engineering techniques. For this purpose, the center will investigate the use of model-driven approaches for developing high quality software. Almost all professionals in software industry agree on the need to thoroughly test the developed software. However, the actual testing process is severely hindered by lack of automation. Software testing is a time consuming process that requires specific expertise and automation to be cost-effective, which are often not available in industry. The QUEST center aims to bridge this gap by developing novel strategies and tools for quality engineering and automated testing that are scalable in industrial context. The real impact of software engineering is visible only when the practices/techniques are transferred to the practitioners/industry. Therefore, the center focuses on performing applied research by solving real industrial problems. For this purpose we work closely with local and international industrial and research partners.  The key research and academic goals of the lab include: International Collaborations Engineering dependable and reliable systems is a difficult challenge, which requires cross-disciplinary collaboration involving both the academia and the industry. The Quest lab is actively involved in research collaborations with researchers from renowned research organizations such as Simula Labs, Norway and the Inter-disciplinary Center for Security and Trust (SnT).  Current Projects QUEST Lab Home Page Impact Factor International Journal publications from QUEST in 2013/2014 The evolution and maturity of parallel, distributed and Cloud computing in last few decades has opened up new horizons in research and applications in these domains. The objective of SEcure Networks and Distributed Systems (SENDS) research group at NUCES is to explore and provide innovative and secure solutions in the rich field of distributed computing. SENDS team focuses on investigation, design and development of scalable and efficient systems and algorithms for the delivery of services to the end user in a distributed environment over the Internet or via a private network. SENDS research group is working in various related domains such as Cloud, Edge and Fog Computing, Ubiquitous and Pervasive Computing, Internet of Things, Information Security and Privacy, Green Computing, Computer Networks (Performance Modeling, Admission and Congestion Control, Quality of Service, Mobility Management and its Cost Analysis, P2P systems, Routing Protocols, Fault Management), Software Defined Networking, Business Processes and Services Oriented Architectures and Middleware Systems. For more information, visit SENDS Lab Homepage. The objectives of this centre are to carry out research and development in software engineering and allied application areas. The centre promotes theoretical research in the software engineering area, resolve problems faced by the software industry, and helps establish software engineering practices in the industry. Through SERC, the University seeks to help and support the local software industry in establishing and improving their processes and practices through continuous feedback and training. SERC aims to achieve these objectives by collecting the industry data to understand productivity, cost, and quality parameters. This will hopefully also help in developing more suitable process and lifecycle models for different types of projects being undertaken by our local industry in the offshore and distributed environment. Software Architecture, Software Project Management, Software Quality and Process Improvement are main areas of research. Sample Projects Completed On-going Projects ReVeaL is a research group that focuses on applied research in Visual Recognition, Computer Vision and Machine Learning for solving real-world large-scale complex problems. In ReVeaL the goal is to conceive, design and develop recognition systems that can recognize and understand the content of an image (or video) and then make informed decisions or recommendations. Building such systems not only demands solutions for complex recognition and inference problems but also requires answers to challenging computational questions. Research areas include: Members of the group: Following faculty members are part of this group: The primary motivation for the creation of this group is to encourage the development and understanding of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and its applications in our students and faculty members. It promotes inter-disciplinary exchanges between AI and other fields such as information processing, energy management etc. Its principal focus is to maintain a sustainable research base aimed for graduate and post-graduate students within relevant research areas.  This research group emphasizes on the areas of Computational Intelligence, Machine Learning and Data Mining. We explore the applications of the algorithms and techniques from these areas, in real life scenarios. The group has ongoing research work that investigates the creation of automated and independent learning within machines. Some areas where our research work is applied include Game AI, Social Computing, Knowledge Management, as well as other classical areas of research such as function optimization in dynamic or time variant environments.  Members of the group: Electrical Engineering Department hosts the Embedded Systems & Pervasive Computing (EPIC) Lab that as the name suggests, encompasses research and development activities in the broad areas of Embedded Systems, Internet of Things (IOT), Cloud Computing and integration of software and hardware systems. It is headed by Dr. Ataul Aziz Ikram, Associate Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering. Currently, a Higher Education Commission (HEC) funded National Research Program for Universities (NRPU) project is being executed by Dr. Ataul Aziz Ikram, Principal Investigator. The title of the project is “Implementation of a multi-device multi technology cloud, performance evaluation and customization for commercial applications”. The project is in collaboration with the University of Gujrat, Hafiz Hayat Campus, and the Co-Principal Investigator, Dr. Zia- Ul Qayyum, who is also the Vice Chancellor there. To bridge the gap between academia and industry, the University has joined hands with Huawei Technologies to establish a training center at its Islamabad campus. It is now a “Huawei Authorized Learning Partner (HALP)” and is able to deliver Huawei Certified Network Associate training program. The three programs currently offered include HCNA Unified Communications and HCNA Storage and HCNA Routers and Switches. Six batches that constituted Industry Professionals and University Alumni have successfully completed HCNA training from HALP. Huawei Authorized Information and Network Academy (HAINA) is a not-for-profit partnership program that authorizes universities and colleges to deliver Huawei Certification courses to their students. Huawei and Islamabad campus signed HAINA agreement recently and two batches have already completed their Training Program. The University believes that practical knowledge will create opportunities and will support effective and sustainable growth. Through the HAINA program, Huawei and NUCES contributes support to the local ICT education, shares knowledge, creates more opportunities, and builds a better ICT talent eco-system. FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
MedalHolders,  Students with outstanding academic performance are awarded medals. First, Second and Third position holders are awarded Gold, Silver and Bronze Medals respectively. Following Students have so far received the honor: MBA-1.5 MS(CS) MS(MG) MS(SE) MBA-1.5 MS(SE) BBA BS(AF) BS(CS) BS(EE) BBA BS(AF) BS(CS) BS(EE) MBA-1.5 MBA-1.5 Evening MS(CS) MBA-1.5 MS(CS) BBA BS(AF) BS(CS) BS(EE) MBA-1.5 MS(CS) BBA BS(AF) BS(CS) BS(EE) MBA-1 MBA-3.5 MS(CS) BBA BS(CS) BS(EE) MBA-1 MS(CS) MS(EE) BBA BS(CS) BS(TE) MBA-1 MBA-2 MBA-3 MS(CS) BBA BS(CS) BS(TE) MBA-2 MS(CS) MS(TE) BBA BS(CS) BS(TE) MBA-2 MS(CS) BBA BS(CS) BS(TE) MS(CS) BBA BS(CS) BS(TE) MS(CS) BS(CS) BS(TE) MS(CS) BS(CS) BS(TE) MS(CS) BS(CS) MS(CS) BS(CS) BS(CS) BS(CS) BS(CS) BS(CS) FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
RectorLists,  Students (registered in a Bachelor degree program) with the SGPA 4.00 are included in the RECTOR's List. Such a student recieves a Certificate and his/her name is also placed on the University's website. Only those students are included in this list if they have completed the semester with regular course load prescribed in the study plan. Following Students have so far received the honor Third Year Second Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year Second Year Fourth Year Second Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year Third Year Fourth Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Fourth Year Fourth Year Fourth Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Fourth Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Third Year Third Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Third Year First Year Second Year Fourth Year First Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Fourth Year First Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Third Year Second Year Fourth Year First Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Second Year Third Year First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year First Year Second Year Fourth Year First Year Fourth Year Second Year First Year First Year Second Year Fourth Year First Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year First Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year First Year Second Year Fourth Year Second Year Fourth Year First Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Third Year First Year Second Year First Year FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
DeanLists,  Students (registered in a Bachelor degree program) with the SGPA 3.50 or more in a semester are included in the DEAN's List. Such a student recieves a Certificate and his/her name is also placed on the University's website. Only those students are included in this list if they have completed the semester with regular course load prescribed in the study plan. Following Students have so far received the honor Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Second Year Third Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year  First Year Second Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Third Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year  First Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year  First Year Second Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year  First Year Second Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year  First Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year  First Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
ScholarshipAwardees,  BS(EE) BS(CS) BS(CS) BS(EE) BS(CS) BS(EE) MS(CS) BS(CS) MS(SPM) BS(TE) BS(CS) MS(CS) MS(CS) BS(CS) BS(TE) MS(CS) BS(CS) PhD(CS) MS(CS) BS(CS) MS(CS) PhD(CS) PhD(CS) BS(TE) BS(TE) FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
Home - Fast University Karachi | NUCES,  Founded as a Federally Chartered University in July 2000, the National University of Computer and Emerging Sciences is a premiere University of Pakistan, renowned for the quality and impact of its students in the development of local software and other industries. The university has five modern campuses in Karachi, Lahore, Islamabad, Peshawar, and Chiniot-Faisalabad. These campuses provide world-class educational environments and recreational facilities to over 11,000 students, around one quarter are female, and over 500 skilled faculty members.  The National University of Computer & Emerging Sciences is the first multi-campus private sector university set up under the Federal Charter granted by Ordinance No.XXIII of 2000, dated July 01, 2000. 
 The University started with an impressive advantage in that, thanks to the Foundation FAST’s selfless, ceaseless, and imaginative efforts, it inherited four first-rate computer science institutes located in Karachi, Lahore, Islamabad, and Peshawar, in spacious buildings and prestigious settings. These institutes, individually and collectively, have established leadership positions due to the splendid vision of enlightened management and the tireless efforts of a highly qualified faculty. Over the years FAST has become the hallmark of excellence in the academic arena, domestic market, and international community. One of the best computer science programs in the country. A pioneer of modern curriculum and academic excellence that is well-recognized by leading software industry entities. FAST Karachi offers a number of undergraduate and post graduate programs that are aligned with the latest technological trends and also offer a reputable PhD degree. We offer our students an environment that enhances their social skills while allowing them to have a memorable time at the campus through various societies and events. Take a tour of Fast University Karachi Campus and you will find the best university in the state. The video will take you to every place in this university.  St-4 Sector 17-D On National Highway Karachi, Pakistan   info@nu.edu.pk   (+92-213) 410-0541-6   22-G, Block-6, PECHS, Karachi, Pakistan   info@nu.edu.pk   (+92-213) 439 0941-5  
Department of Computer Science - Fast University Karachi | NUCES, Career Opportunities Your career prospects will be excellent: You may become a software engineer, programmer, web developer, games programmer, or computer graphic designer. Award of Degree For the award of a BS (Computer Science) degree, a student must have: Provided by the KU Institute of Education, this programme is available by distance learning, allowing you to study flexibly while balancing work and personal lifes. The MSc Finance (EG. Banking) deepens your understanding of banks and financial markets, and how they relate to performance. It will help you to advance your career in finance and policy.  St-4 Sector 17-D On National Highway Karachi, Pakistan   info@nu.edu.pk   (+92-213) 410-0541-6   22-G, Block-6, PECHS, Karachi, Pakistan   info@nu.edu.pk   (+92-213) 439 0941-5 
Research,  FAST-National University lays special emphasis on the ability of the students to effectively communicate their professional abilities. In order to augment their soft skills—communication adeptness, leadership talent, and managerial capacity—LLC, established at the Karachi campus is equipped with twenty five work stations, provided for by state of the art hardware and most modern Interactive Language Software, and other allied pedagogical tools and techniques. The exquisitely furnished Centre affords students an opportunity to polish their language and communication skills both in English as well as foreign languages. Apart from offering lab sessions as course components of regular courses, i.e., English Language, the Centre also holds workshops, training courses, and activities in other Foreign Languages as well. The Centre also offers short courses for professionals from industry and students within in English and foreign languages like Arabic, Chinese, French, German and Korean. This computer assisted language learning centre with video camera recording and discussion arenas, trains students in basic presentational skills, group discussions, interviews, communication and perception, creative and innovative thinking skills, etiquettes, public speaking, model speaking through movie sessions and live television programs, spoken English, phonetics and phonology, pronunciation, sound and spelling, stress and intonation, word focus, and Language Varieties( British and American). 
www.linkedin.com/groups/Center-Research-in-Ubiquitous-Computing-4452137/about
 Ubiquitous Computing (computing everywhere for everyone) promotes the idea of integrating computation into the environment, rather than having computers in daily life. The idea will enable people and machines to move around and interact with information and computing in informal way, to sense changes in their environment and to automatically adapt and act based on these changes CRUC was established in March 2006 and has several faculty and student members including 10 Ph.D. fellows working on diverse projects and ideas within this domain. More than 40 research papers are published in International conferences and Journals by the Centre in last 2 years. The Centre has active collaboration with researchers and faculty members of universities of Australia, China, USA, UK and UAE. The Centre has funding by Microsoft and support from European Union, ICT R&D and HEC. The CRUC has also offered several Doctoral and Graduate level courses to equip students with latest challenges of computer science. It is regularly arranging seminars and workshops on different areas where researchers present their ideas. At least one research conference is arranged at each year where graduating students present their findings. Under the umbrella of Ubiquitous Computing, we are working in the areas of Augmented and Virtual Reality, Human Computer Interaction, Multi Agent Systems, Grid and Cloud Computing, Robotics & Sensor Networks, Workflow Systems, Provenance Systems and Agri Informatics. 
Thesis/Projects:
 Following are the on-going theses and projects at CRUC: Karachi is the hub of major business and economic activities in Pakistan. A large number of business centres and industries are spread all around the city.  Karachi port, stock exchange and a cluster of multinational companies are providing unique opportunities of international trade and business here. Management Science Research Centre aims at providing a platform to offer research-based academic solutions of business and economics problems prevailing in today’s organizations. The centre has collaborations with local entrepreneurs and international companies. Some of the activities of the Centre are: Projects: Student members have picked up real life issues of business, economics, and banking etc. as their final year project to research and provide solutions of these problems  Seminars: various seminars have been conducted by foreign consultants, top managers of multinational companies, and other key personnel of different organizations 
Workshops: Training workshops have been conducted in risk management, and total quality management.
         
Training and Development: 
            The centre has provided the training to its students and faculty in most modern skill development areas
         
Business Games and Simulations: 
            The centre is currently engaged in developing different business games and simulations to be utilized in classrooms teaching and assessment.
         
Case Study Development: Currently the centre is working on a number of case studies related to various pedagogical theories and practices to assist in learning and teaching.
         
            The centre encourages faculty and students to take up research and provides them help to access organizational data, support, and other logistics to carry out research activities.
         
syslab.khi.nu.edu.pk 
 
            SysLab focuses on research and development of Cloud Systems, Internet-based distributed systems, and mobile applications. Research at SysLab is inspired by many considerations related to Security, Scalability, Quality of Service, Performance Enhancement, and Usability of these systems.
         
            Motivated by recent advancements and popularity of Cloud Computing and High Performance Computing systems, SysLab also focuses on research and development of these two different but related domains. Cloud Computing can yield enhanced performance and usability for different mobile and Internet-based applications. Similarly, High Performance Computing can catalyze solution for many computational problems and yield increased performance for various applications. Further, technological advancements related to Smart city and Internet of Things, emergence of smart grid, and integration of mobile and cloud, has open new opportunities for research. SysLab team is concentrated on architecture and design of these systems and development of various applications which can benefit from emerging research technologies.
         
            A few of the ongoing projects are listed below:
         A few of the ongoing projects include volunteer Computing on heterogeneous platforms, Smart City and Smart grid, GPGPU Computing, Internet of Things, Bio Informatics over Cloud, Heterogeneous Parallel Computing, Cyber Security for Smart City, Multimedia Wireless Sensor Networks, Security in Smart phones, and Botnet detection and Mitigation. SysLab has received research grants from NVIDIA and IEEE TCPP. It is also Pakistan's first and only NVIDIA Research Centre. The group focuses on multiple aspects related to machine learning, computer vision, data and text mining, and information retrieval.  Computer Vision focuses on giving machines the ability to understand visual input. The ability to automatically extract information from visual input finds its applications in video surveillance at airports, streets, banks, old homes, schools, in medical imaging to assist in diagnosis and surgeries, in human computer interaction (playing games, controlling computers with gestures, etc), in exploration of outer-space, and other areas of scientific research. Machine Learning provides exciting aspects for enhancement and automation. 
            The group also focuses on knowledge discovery from textual data. It is involved in extracting unstructured text, processing of information, converting into structural form for meta representation, associating semantics information, and performing innovative task specific processing.
            Some of the ongoing projects of the group include video surveillance, object classification and search, action activity recognition, and the analysis of crowded scenes.  On the information retrieval side, the group is currently focused on Document clustering, Text summarization, Sentiment analysis, Named entity/event information mining, and web search and ranking. The algorithms and techniques proposed during last five years from the group received excellent citation from the research community.
         FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
MedalHolders,  Students with outstanding academic performance are awarded medals. First, Second and Third position holders are awarded Gold, Silver and Bronze Medals respectively. Following Students have so far received the honor: MS(CS) MS(DS) MS(SPM) BBA BS(CS) BS(EE) MS(CN) MS(SPM) BBA BS(CS) BS(EE) MS(CS) MS(SPM) BBA BS(CS) BS(EE) MS(SPM) BBA BS(CS) BS(EE) MBA MBA-1.5 MS(CN) MS(CS) MS(SPM) BBA BS(CS) BS(EE) MBA-1 MS(SPM) BBA BS(CS) BS(TE) MBA-1 MS(CS) MS(SPM) BBA BS(CS) BS(TE) MS(CS) MS(SPM) BBA BS(CE) BS(CS) BS(TE) MS(CS) MS(SPM) BBA BS(CE) BS(CS) BS(TE) MS(CS) MS(SPM) BBA BS(CE) BS(CS) BS(TE) MS(CS) BS(CE) BS(CS) BS(TE) MS(CS) BS(CS) MS(CS) BS(CS) MS(CS) BS(CS) MCS BCS BCS MCS BCS MCS BCS MCS MCS BCS BCS FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
RectorLists,  Students (registered in a Bachelor degree program) with the SGPA 4.00 are included in the RECTOR's List. Such a student recieves a Certificate and his/her name is also placed on the University's website. Only those students are included in this list if they have completed the semester with regular course load prescribed in the study plan. Following Students have so far received the honor Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Fourth Year Third Year First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year First Year Second Year Fourth Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Third Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Fourth Year Third Year Second Year Fourth Year First Year Third Year Second Year First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year First Year Fourth Year Second Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Fourth Year Second Year First Year Second Year Second Year Third Year First Year First Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Fourth Year Second Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Fourth Year Fourth Year Fourth Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year First Year Second Year Third Year Second Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Third Year Second Year Fourth Year First Year Third Year Second Year First Year Second Year First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year First Year Second Year Third Year First Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Third Year Second Year Fourth Year First Year Third Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Third Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Third Year Second Year Third Year First Year Second Year Third Year Second Year Second Year Third Year First Year Second Year Third Year FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
DeanLists,  Students (registered in a Bachelor degree program) with the SGPA 3.50 or more in a semester are included in the DEAN's List. Such a student recieves a Certificate and his/her name is also placed on the University's website. Only those students are included in this list if they have completed the semester with regular course load prescribed in the study plan. Following Students have so far received the honor Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Second Year Third Year  First Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year  First Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year  First Year Second Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year  First Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year  First Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
ScholarshipAwardees,  BS(EE) BS(CS) BS(CS) BS(EE) BS(EE) BS(CS) MS(CS) BS(CS) BS(CS) BS(TE) BS(CE) MS(CS) BS(CS) BS(TE) BS(CE) MS(CS) PhD(CS) PhD(CS) BS(CS) MS(CS) PhD(CS) MS(CS) BS(TE) BS(CE) FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
Research,  
            A Big Data lab has been established in Lahore campus. The use of Big Data is becoming a crucial way for leading companies to outperform their peers. In most industries, established competitors and new entrants alike, leverage data-driven strategies to innovate, compete, and capture value. Big Data will help to create new growth opportunities, and also entirely new categories of companies, such as those that aggregate and analyze industry data.
         
            Students of Dr. Usman Awais and Dr. Zareen Alamgir have successfully setup this lab and cluster. In guidance of Dr. Usman Awais an OpenStack Cloud infrastructure is also established. The deployed OpenStack cloud provides Platform as a Service (PaaS) infrastructure.The PaaS enables the students to analyze many different distributed computing technologies, including Data and Compute Clusters and Grids.The initial set up will be used by master thesis students, and students working on their Final Year Projects (FYP). It will allow the students to have a practical exposure to cloud related technologies. A personalized cloud dashboard can also be made accessible over the internet, in future.
         
            Students can access this Hadoop master cluster from other Labs. Now "Big Data" students can access the Hadoop cluster for their assignments, without going to the Big Data Lab.
         
            Following are the students who made considerable efforts to realize the plan of setting up these labs.
         Centre for Information Visualization and Intelligent Computing (CIVIC) has been established at the Lahore campus with the aim of conducting research in various areas of Intelligent Computing, Knowledge Engineering, Image Processing and Computer Graphics.  Many groups are actively participating in research and development under the umbrella of CIVIC.  A brief introduction to these groups and their related research activities is given below:  The group is exploring various theoretical and practical aspects of geometric modeling approaches to path planning algorithms. In addition to path planning they are also working actively in the area of reverse engineering where it is required to capture 2D objects, outline of planar images, or generation of 3D geometric models of existing objects for which no such models exist. This research group is exploring state of the art techniques for storing, retrieving and analyzing data for developing business intelligence tools and systems. It is also working in the area of Intelligent Information Retrieval and Text Mining from databases. The focus of research of this group is in the area of developing and designing intelligent user interfaces according to Cognitive Systems Engineering, Cognitive Psychology and behavioral aspects of different users. This group is actively developing different applications using latest techniques in Image Processing and Machine Vision. Recently, members of this group have gained nationwide recognition by winning various prizes in the software and programming competition at NaSCon. The machine learning group is exploring various theoretical techniques in supervised and unsupervised machine learning algorithms. This research group is working in collaboration with top researchers from the Electrical Engineering Department of University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore. Projects Following is a list of the current research projects undertaken by CIVIC: This lab is developing innovate techniques for efficient communication of voice, video and data, especially in the internet connected world. Limited bandwidth of transmission medium (wire-line and wireless) and user’s demand for good quality of service pose interesting challenges for the researchers. Specific areas of work in Computer Networks include providing QoS in the WLANs for real-time multimedia communication, Statistical modelling of the MAC layer for delay and throughput analysis, cross-layer design for improving performance over wireless networks, and joint source-channel encoding for image and video.  In wireless communication, the research focuses on exploiting MIMO technology in order to develop algorithms to achieve higher data rates at low errors. This includes analysing system performance under various channel conditions and designing coding schemes to mitigate the effects of channel impairment. One of the projects, entitled, “Dynamic Scheduling and Call Admission Control for Quality of Service (QoS) Provision in Real-time Multimedia Application over IEEE 802.11e Wireless Local Area Networks (WLANs)” was funded by the PTCL R&D Fund for Thematic Research Grant. The goal of this research was to develop novel scheduling and call admission control (CAC) mechanisms for IEEE 802.11e WLANs. Outcome of this research was development of a novel scheduler, named Proportional Increase and Multiplicative Decrease (PIMD), and a measurement based CAC algorithms. Both algorithms have been published in the proceedings of International refereed conferences. As an extension to this project, modelling and delay analysis of real time multimedia streams (voice and video) over WLAN is being done with an aim to achieve optimal admission control that adapts to dynamic network conditions. Mathematical analysis of PIMD for its suability in various network configurations is being investigated. In MIMO wireless communication systems, analytical modelling under various fading channels and employing hybrid system (BLAST vs. STBC) are current areas of research. Work is also being done on enhancing combating capabilities of system against variations and inherent interference present in fading.  The MIMO systems are being analysed by including pre-coder and multi-user detection. The future direction of the research is towards developing communication and network algorithms for implementation for the upcoming 4G –LTE and mobile wi-max systems. CRMG is established by the FAST School of Management, Lahore Campus (“FSM”) to motivate research on the impact of management and governance philosophies on the art and practice of these disciplines. The centre is jointly run by Dr Hamid Hassan, Dr Zia Khan and Dr Akbar Azam. Dr Hamid Hassan was Visiting Research Fellow at the Institute of International Affairs, Aichi University, Nagoya campus, Aichi, Japan working in coordination with Prof. Yasuo Hoshino of Aichi University, on “Role of Leadership in the Organizational Success”. PhD students enrolled at FSM are conducting research on related themes. Bimonthly seminars facilitate sharing of ideas and updates. The findings from the theoretical and empirical research conducted at CRMG are expected to provide guidelines to deal with the governance issues of public and private sector organizations and help eliminate the redundant activities that cause wastage of resources at micro and macro level in the firm and the economy. Some of the recent results of research endeavors at CRMG are as following. Visit: www.serc.org.pk Software Research Engineering Centre is dedicated to conducting research and development in various facets of software engineering. The centre has been established to promote theoretical research in the software engineering area, resolve problems faced by the software industry, and help establish software engineering practices in the industry. Through the establishment of the SERC, the University seeks to help and support the local software industry in establishing and improving their processes and practices through continuous feedback and training. SERC aims to achieve these objectives by collecting the industry data to understand productivity, cost, and quality parameters. This will hopefully also help in developing more suitable process and lifecycle models for different types of projects being undertaken by our local industry in the offshore and distributed environment. During the last few years, this Centre has arranged many seminars and workshops in the software engineering domain. Sample Past Projects Recent Publications E-Learning Project Tool for Improvement of Cohesiveness in Emotive Writing, funded by ICT R &D. Liberty Lab is established to engineer multi-disciplinary solutions for socially grounded problems and to achieve advancement in Robotics. Research is done to make robots that can achieve autonomous behavior. Problems of localization, mapping, navigation and image processing in robots are explored. Control algorithms on ground and air robots are developed to improve the navigation capabilities of such robots. The goal is to make autonomous mobile and industrial robots, and induce learning and long-term autonomy in them. Using the output of this research, solutions to industrial and societal problems using robotics and embedded systems technology are devised. The lab aims to construct low cost robots that are intelligent enough to work around in industry, farms and houses. A lot of algorithms have been devised in literature with promising results, but still we don’t see these algorithms deployed on robots around us. The research group thus wants to make robots for very simple tasks which can be performed by robots. Similarly, there are scenarios that only require an embedded solution, as opposed to standard articulated robot. The research group aims to devise such embedded systems. The lab has expanded its operation in three broad thematic areas namely, systems, humans and crops. The lab aims to put together and apply the knowledge gained from diverse areas of expertise including robotics, embedded systems and artificial intelligence, to engineer out-of-the-box solutions that practically solve the problems faced by the local society. The lab achieves its aims via workshops, talks and projects at both graduate and undergraduate levels. Collaborators and Research Partners The lab initiated multiple projects in collaboration with leading medical institutes of the country, including, King Edward Medical University and Services Institute of Medical Sciences (Services Hospital). These projects include an EMG controlled prosthetic arm, retinopathy classification for diabetics, bio-thesiometer for neuropathy, contact-less waist measurement for patients and bone recovery analyzer. The research group has acquired a grant from the German government in collaboration with University of Kaiserslautern, for a medium term project to start automation of agriculture in Pakistan using robots. Students and faculty members from both participating universities will visit and work with their partner university for a couple of months each year. The grant will be utilized for R&D in automatic detection of weed in wheat crops using flying robots. The research group organized the 7th International Workshop on Field and Assistive Robots (WFAR-7) on 17-18 Oct 2014, which showcased talks from researchers, robot demos and poster session with robotics students. It brought together the robotics community in Pakistan and Europe. This year, the group plans to organize the 9th International event on Field and Assistive Robots in October 2015. Current Projects The lab currently consists of three faculty members, five research assistants, nine graduate students and about 50 undergrad students. Projects currently underway are disaster management using robotics, collaborative tasks using teams of robots, aid of shoppers, etc. The lab is also running multiple projects on traffic congestion detection and control using different sensing mechanisms including mobile phone accelerometers, cameras, flying robots and crowd sourcing. In the field of agriculture, the lab runs projects to monitor weed, pests and irrigation of crops. FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
MedalHolders,  Students with outstanding academic performance are awarded medals. First, Second and Third position holders are awarded Gold, Silver and Bronze Medals respectively. Following Students have so far received the honor: BS(CS) BS(EE) MBA-1.5 MBA-1.5 MS(AF) MS(EE) MS(Ling) MS(Math) MS(SPM) MBA-1.5 MS(CV) MS(Ling) MS(Math) MS(SPM) BBA BS(AF) BS(CS) BS(CV) BS(EE) MBA-1.5 MS(CV) MS(EE) MS(Ling) MS(Math) MS(SPM) BBA BS(AF) BS(CS) BS(CV) BS(EE) MBA-1.5 MS(CS) MS(EE) MS(Math) MS(SPM) BBA BS(AF) BS(CS) BS(CV) BS(EE) MBA-1.5 MS(CS) MS(EE) MS(Math) MS(SPM) BBA BS(AF) BS(CS) BS(CV) BS(EE) MBA-1.5 MS(EE) MS(Math) MS(SPM) BBA BS(AF) BS(CS) BS(CV) BS(EE) MBA MBA-2.5 MS(EE) MS(Math) MS(SPM) BBA BS(AF) BS(CS) BS(EE) MBA MS(CS) MS(SPM) MS(TE) BBA BS(CS) BS(EE) MBA-1.5 MS(Math) BBA BS(CE) BS(CS) BS(TE) MBA MBA-1 MBA-2 MS(CS) BBA BS(CE) BS(CS) BS(TE) MBA-2 MS(CS) MS(SPM) BBA BS(CE) BS(CS) BS(TE) MBA-2 MS(CS) MS(SPM) BBA BS(CE) BS(CS) BS(TE) MS(CS) BBA BS(CE) BS(CS) BS(TE) MS(CS) BS(CE) BS(CS) BS(TE) MS(CS) MS(SPM) BS(CS) BS(TE) MS(CS) MS(SPM) BS(CS) BS(TE) MS(CS) MS(SPM) BS(CS) BS(CS) BS(CS) BS(CS) BCS BS(CS) BCS BCS BCS BCS BCS BCS BCS FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
RectorLists,  Students (registered in a Bachelor degree program) with the SGPA 4.00 are included in the RECTOR's List. Such a student recieves a Certificate and his/her name is also placed on the University's website. Only those students are included in this list if they have completed the semester with regular course load prescribed in the study plan. Following Students have so far received the honor Third Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year Second Year First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year First Year Second Year Third Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Second Year First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year First Year Second Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Fourth Year Third Year First Year First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Second Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year First Year Second Year Third Year First Year Second Year Second Year Third Year First Year First Year Second Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Fourth Year Third Year Second Year Fourth Year First Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Fourth Year Fourth Year Second Year Fourth Year Third Year First Year Second Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year First Year Fourth Year Second Year Second Year Fourth Year Third Year First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Second Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Third Year Second Year Fourth Year Second Year First Year Second Year Fourth Year Second Year First Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Third Year First Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year First Year Second Year Fourth Year First Year Third Year Fourth Year First Year Second Year Third Year First Year Second Year Fourth Year Second Year Second Year Second Year FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
DeanLists,  Students (registered in a Bachelor degree program) with the SGPA 3.50 or more in a semester are included in the DEAN's List. Such a student recieves a Certificate and his/her name is also placed on the University's website. Only those students are included in this list if they have completed the semester with regular course load prescribed in the study plan. Following Students have so far received the honor Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Second Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year  First Year  First Year Second Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year  First Year  First Year Second Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year  First Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year  First Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year Third Year Fourth Year  First Year Second Year Third Year Fourth Year FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
ScholarshipAwardees,  BS(CS) BS(EE) BS(EE) BS(CS) MS(CS) BS(TE) BS(CS) BS(CE) MS(CS) BS(CS) BS(TE) BS(CE) MS(CS) PhD(CS) MS(CS) MS(CS) PhD(CS) MS(CS) BS(CS) PhD(CS) MS(CS) FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
Mission/Vision,  “To achieve national and international recognition through innovation in Civil Engineering education, research and community services.” 
                To develop highly competent graduates with sound engineering knowledge, social responsibility, and lifelong learning skills enabling them for successful careers in the civil engineering profession.
                We achieve this mission through both undergraduate and graduate programs by:
             Our graduates are expected to attain the following: PEO-1:  Successfully engage in contemporary civil engineering practice to solve real-world problems. PEO-2:  Pursue professional growth through continuous learning and experience PEO-3:  Maintain high ethical standards in the conduct of professional practice PEO-4:  Attain an increasing level of responsibility with interpersonal and communication skills FAST-House Rohtas Road, G-9/4 Islamabad - 44000
